# 🔐 **Web Server Fingerprinting Tool** A secure client–server application that performs **server fingerprinting and banner grabbing** on target services using **SSL/TLS encrypted communication**. The server handles multiple clients concurrently while automatically detecting and parsing banners from HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, and other services. ### ✨ **Key Features** - **Multi-Protocol Support**: Automatically detects and handles HTTP (port 80/443) and FTP (port 21) services with protocol-specific banner extraction - **Secure Communication**: All client-server communication is encrypted using SSL/TLS with self-signed certificates - **Concurrent Client Handling**: Server uses multi-threading to handle multiple clients simultaneously - **Performance Metrics**: Client displays round-trip latency for each query - **Error Handling**: Graceful timeout handling (5 seconds) to prevent frozen connections on unreachable targets - **Input Validation**: Robust error handling and validation for user input --- ## 📋 **Prerequisites** - Python 3.6+ - OpenSSL (for generating SSL certificates) - Appropriate network permissions to scan target servers --- ## 📜 **SSL Certificate Setup** Before starting the server, you must generate a **self-signed SSL certificate** to enable encrypted communication. Run the following command in the **project root directory**: ```bash openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout server.key -out server.crt -days 365 -nodes ``` You will be prompted to enter certificate information. Press Enter to accept default values or provide custom details. ### ⚠️ **Security Note** `server.key` contains private keys and should **never be committed to version control**. It is already excluded in `.gitignore` for security reasons. Generate your own SSL certificate before running the server. --- ## 🚀 **Quick Start** ### **1️⃣ Generate SSL Certificate** ```bash openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout server.key -out server.crt -days 365 -nodes ``` ### **2️⃣ Start the Server** Open a terminal in the project directory and run: ```bash python server.py ``` Expected output: ``` [*] Secure Fingerprint Server listening on 0.0.0.0:8443 ``` ### **3️⃣ Start the Client(s)** Open another terminal (or multiple terminals to test concurrency): ```bash python client.py ``` Expected output: ``` [+] Securely connected to Fingerprint Server. Enter targets to fingerprint in 'IP:PORT' format (e.g., 93.184.216.34:80). Type 'exit' to quit. ``` --- ## 💻 **Usage Examples** ### **Basic Fingerprinting** When prompted, enter the target in the format `IP:PORT`: ``` Target (IP:PORT)> 142.250.193.206:80 [Server Response] Result for 142.250.193.206:80 -> Server: gws [Metrics] ⏱️ Round-Trip Latency: 0.1234 seconds ``` ### **Supported Protocols** | Port | Protocol | Behavior | |------|----------|----------| | 21 | FTP | Automatically extracts welcome message | | 80 | HTTP | Sends HTTP GET request and extracts `Server:` header | | 443 | HTTPS | Sends HTTP GET request and extracts `Server:` header | | Other | Generic | Attempts to read initial banner | ### **Example Targets** ``` Google HTTP:           142.250.193.206:80 Cloudflare DNS:        1.1.1.1:80 Example Domain:        93.184.216.34:80 FTP Server:            example.com:21 Custom Service:        192.168.1.100:8080 ``` ### **Exit the Client** To securely close the connection: ``` Target (IP:PORT)> exit ``` --- ## 🧪 **Testing Concurrency** To test **multiple simultaneous connections**: 1. Start the server once: ```bash python server.py ``` 2. Open **multiple client terminals** and run: ```bash python client.py ``` 3. Run fingerprinting scans from each client simultaneously The server will handle **all requests concurrently** using separate threads for each connection. --- ## 🏗️ **Architecture** ### **Server (`server.py`)** - Listens on `0.0.0.0:8443` (all network interfaces) - Uses SSL/TLS for secure communication - Implements multi-threaded connection handling - Features protocol-specific banner extraction: - **FTP**: Reads initial welcome banner - **HTTP/HTTPS**: Sends HEAD request and parses `Server:` header - **Generic**: Attempts to read initial response ### **Client (`client.py`)** - Connects to `127.0.0.1:8443` (configurable for remote servers) - Establishes secure SSL/TLS connection - Sends target specifications in `IP:PORT` format - Measures and displays round-trip latency for each query - Validates user input format --- ## 📁 **Project Structure** ``` web-server-fingerprinting-tool/ │ ├── server.py         # Server implementation with banner grabbing ├── client.py         # Client with latency metrics ├── server.crt        # SSL certificate (generated during setup) ├── server.key        # Private key (❌ NOT in git, generated locally) ├── README.md         # This file ├── .gitignore        # Git ignore rules └── .git              # Git repository ``` --- ## ⚙️ **Configuration** ### **Server Configuration** (`server.py`) ```python HOST = '0.0.0.0'  # Listen on all interfaces PORT = 8443       # SSL/TLS port CERT_FILE = 'server.crt' KEY_FILE = 'server.key' ``` ### **Client Configuration** (`client.py`) ```python HOST = '127.0.0.1'  # Change to server IP for remote connections PORT = 8443         # Must match server port ``` **Note**: To connect from a different machine, change the `HOST` variable in `client.py` to the server's IP address. --- ## 🛠️ **Troubleshooting** ### **Issue: SSL Certificate Error** ``` ssl.SSLError: [SSL: CERTIFICATE_VERIFY_FAILED] ``` **Solution**: The certificate is self-signed. This is expected and normal. The client already disabled verification. ### **Issue: "Connection refused" or "No route to host"** - Verify the server is running: `python server.py` - Check HOST and PORT in `client.py` match the server settings - For remote connections, use the server's IP address in `client.py` ### **Issue: "Address already in use"** ``` OSError: [Errno 48] Address already in use ``` **Solution**: Either: 1. Wait 60 seconds for the port to be released 2. Change the PORT in both `server.py` and `client.py` 3. Kill the existing process: `lsof -ti:8443 | xargs kill -9` (macOS/Linux) ### **Issue: Timeout Errors** ``` [Error] Connection to IP:PORT timed out. ``` **Solution**: The target server didn't respond within 5 seconds. This is normal for unreachable hosts. ### **Issue: "No module named 'ssl'"** This is a standard Python library. Ensure Python 3.6+ is installed: ```bash python --version ``` --- ## 🔐 **Security Considerations** 1. **Self-Signed Certificates**: This tool uses self-signed SSL certificates. In production, use certificates from a trusted certificate authority. 2. **Private Key Protection**: The `server.key` file is excluded from version control. Never commit it to git. 3. **Network Exposure**: By default, the server listens on `0.0.0.0`. For production, restrict to specific interfaces. 4. **Timeout Protection**: The server implements a 5-second timeout per connection to prevent resource exhaustion. 5. **Input Validation**: The client validates input format and the server validates IP:PORT format. --- ## 📊 **Performance Metrics** The client displays **round-trip latency** for each fingerprinting request: ``` [Metrics] ⏱️ Round-Trip Latency: 0.1234 seconds ``` This includes: - Connection establishment time - Banner grabbing time - Response transmission time - Network delay --- ## 🚦 **Connection Flow** ``` Client                          Server                         Target │                               │                             │ ├─── SSL Connect ────────────> │                             │ │                               │                             │ ├─── IP:PORT ─────────────────> │                             │ │                               ├─── Connect ───────────────> │ │                               │                             │ │                               │ <─── Banner ──────────────> │ │                               │                             │ │ <─── Result + Latency ────── │                             │ │                               │                             │ ├─── IP:PORT ─────────────────> │                             │ │                              (repeat)                       │ │                               │                             │ ├─── exit ─────────────────────> │                             │ │                               │                             │ └─── SSL Close ────────────────> │                             │ ``` --- ## 📈 **Deliverables** ### **Deliverable 2 Features** - ✅ Multi-protocol banner grabbing (HTTP, HTTPS, FTP) - ✅ FTP-specific banner extraction - ✅ Client latency metrics (round-trip time measurement) - ✅ Concurrent client handling - ✅ Input validation and error handling - ✅ SSL/TLS encrypted communication --- ## 📝 **License** This project is provided as-is for educational purposes. --- ## 🤝 **Contributing** Feel free to submit issues or pull requests to improve the tool. --- ## 📞 **Support** For issues or questions, please refer to the troubleshooting section above or open an issue in the repository.
